AWS-ECS-course-master-CODE/docker-basics/Readme.md, before:

# Docker basics

## Docker installation

### Ubuntu

official _Ubuntu_ installation guide: https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/  

#### uninstall older version, if applicable

```bash
sudo apt-get remove docker docker-engine docker.io containerd runc docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io
```

#### installation from Docker respositories

```bash
#update package index
sudo apt-get update
# install packages to allow apt using https repositories
sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg-agent software-properties-common
# add Dockers GPG key
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
# configure the STABLE repository
sudo add-apt-repository \
   "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
# ....and start the installation
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io
```

Check the installation, by running a _hello world_ container:  
```sudo docker run hello-world```  

**Post-install steps to run _docker_ without prefixing it with _sudo_**

```bash
sudo groupadd docker
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
# logout and login again
```

If you used docker via _sudo docker_ before, you will run the following now:

```bash
sudo chown "$USER":"$USER" /home/"$USER"/.docker -R
sudo chmod g+rwx "$HOME/.docker" -R
````

Check without _sudo_, by running a _hello world_ container:  
```docker run hello-world```

### Windows

For users with Windows 10 64-bit **Pro** or **Enterprise** or **Education**-version, use _Docker Desktop_ as shown here:  
https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/

Users with Windows 10 **Home**, Windows pre-10 versions, use _Docker Toolbox_ as shown here:  
https://docs.docker.com/toolbox/toolbox_install_windows/  
> Docker Toolbox ships also Oracle VirtualBox as virtualization solution, thereby this package is huge (~ 1GB) and
> should just be used if there are no other possibilities to run Docker.
> Windows 10 Home users should think about enabling the builtin Linux subsystem and install Ubuntu there !!  

### Mac

**Docker Desktop**: for Mac hardware >2010 and MacOS >= 10.13  
https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/

**Docker Toolbox**: for Mac users that do not cover above criteria
https://docs.docker.com/toolbox/toolbox_install_mac/

## Docker base commands

```bash
# check version
docker version

# list images
sudo docker image ls
# delete an image
sudo docker image rm <image-id>    # where <image-id> is shown in output of "sudo docker image ls"

# list containers
sudo docker container ls [--all]
# delete a container
sudo docker container rm <container-id>    # where <container-id> is shown in the output of "sudo container ls --all"

# run a container
sudo docker run <image>
# run an ubuntu container, provide env variables and run command "env" within container to check for the variable provided
sudo docker run -e ENV_VAR1=myvalue1 ubuntu env | grep ENV_VAR

# run a plain nginx webserver, 
# with random port assignment on local port => port 80 in container
# giving it a name "my-nginx"
# start the container in the background: "-d"
sudo docker run --name my-nginx -P -d nginx

# get details of a container
sudo docker inspect <container name>
sudo docker logs <container name>

# search for e.g. "nginx" containers from public repo
sudo docker search nginx
```

First container creation  

```bash
cat > Dockerfile <<EOF
FROM busybox
CMD echo "Hello world! This is my first Docker image."
EOF

docker build -t container-1 .
```

Interaction with Docker Hub  

```bash
# login to Docker Hub
docker login

# create Dockerfile for sample Nginx container (built on Ubuntu)
cat > Dockerfile <<EOF
FROM ubuntu:latest
RUN DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt-get update
RUN DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt-get -yq install net-tools nginx
EXPOSE 80
ENTRYPOINT ["/usr/sbin/nginx", "-g", "daemon off;"]
EOF


# build your image
sudo docker build -t <your-dockerhub-name>/<your-docker-repo-name> .

# test your container locally
sudo docker run <your-dockerhub-name>/<your-docker-repo-name> .

# push it to your Docker repository
sudo docker push <your-dockerhub-name>/<your-docker-repo-name> 
```

Commit message:

Added the command to run image locally

AWS-ECS-course-master-CODE/docker-basics/Readme.md, after:

# Docker basics

## Docker installation

### Ubuntu

official _Ubuntu_ installation guide: https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/  

#### uninstall older version, if applicable

```bash
sudo apt-get remove docker docker-engine docker.io containerd runc docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io
```

#### installation from Docker respositories

```bash
#update package index
sudo apt-get update
# install packages to allow apt using https repositories
sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg-agent software-properties-common
# add Dockers GPG key
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
# configure the STABLE repository
sudo add-apt-repository \
   "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
# ....and start the installation
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io
```

Check the installation, by running a _hello world_ container:  
```sudo docker run hello-world```  

**Post-install steps to run _docker_ without prefixing it with _sudo_**

```bash
sudo groupadd docker
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
# logout and login again
```

If you used docker via _sudo docker_ before, you will run the following now:

```bash
sudo chown "$USER":"$USER" /home/"$USER"/.docker -R
sudo chmod g+rwx "$HOME/.docker" -R
````

Check without _sudo_, by running a _hello world_ container:  
```docker run hello-world```

### Windows

For users with Windows 10 64-bit **Pro** or **Enterprise** or **Education**-version, use _Docker Desktop_ as shown here:  
https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/

Users with Windows 10 **Home**, Windows pre-10 versions, use _Docker Toolbox_ as shown here:  
https://docs.docker.com/toolbox/toolbox_install_windows/  
> Docker Toolbox ships also Oracle VirtualBox as virtualization solution, thereby this package is huge (~ 1GB) and
> should just be used if there are no other possibilities to run Docker.
> Windows 10 Home users should think about enabling the builtin Linux subsystem and install Ubuntu there !!  

### Mac

**Docker Desktop**: for Mac hardware >2010 and MacOS >= 10.13  
https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/

**Docker Toolbox**: for Mac users that do not cover above criteria
https://docs.docker.com/toolbox/toolbox_install_mac/

## Docker base commands

```bash
# check version
docker version

# list images
sudo docker image ls
# delete an image
sudo docker image rm <image-id>    # where <image-id> is shown in output of "sudo docker image ls"

# list containers
sudo docker container ls [--all]
# delete a container
sudo docker container rm <container-id>    # where <container-id> is shown in the output of "sudo container ls --all"

# run a container
sudo docker run <image>
# run an ubuntu container, provide env variables and run command "env" within container to check for the variable provided
sudo docker run -e ENV_VAR1=myvalue1 ubuntu env | grep ENV_VAR

# run a plain nginx webserver, 
# with random port assignment on local port => port 80 in container
# giving it a name "my-nginx"
# start the container in the background: "-d"
sudo docker run --name my-nginx -P -d nginx

# get details of a container
sudo docker inspect <container name>
sudo docker logs <container name>

# search for e.g. "nginx" containers from public repo
sudo docker search nginx
```

First container creation  

```bash
cat > Dockerfile <<EOF
FROM busybox
CMD echo "Hello world! This is my first Docker image."
EOF

docker build -t container-1 .
```

Interaction with Docker Hub  

```bash
# login to Docker Hub
docker login

# create Dockerfile for sample Nginx container (built on Ubuntu)
cat > Dockerfile <<EOF
FROM ubuntu:latest
RUN DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt-get update
RUN DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt-get -yq install net-tools nginx
EXPOSE 80
ENTRYPOINT ["/usr/sbin/nginx", "-g", "daemon off;"]
EOF

# To Run that image locally 
sudo docker run -d -p 8888:80 my-nginx

# build your image
sudo docker build -t <your-dockerhub-name>/<your-docker-repo-name> .

# test your container locally
sudo docker run <your-dockerhub-name>/<your-docker-repo-name> .

# push it to your Docker repository
sudo docker push <your-dockerhub-name>/<your-docker-repo-name> 
```
